Purpose: To create a program that allows a customer (user) to reserve tickets for an airplane ride. Each user will log-in to the system using their credentials in the program shell: Username + Password. If they are a new user, they will need to sign up for a new account - there will be a usertracker that should keep track of usernames and passwords for different users as well as other pertinent info such as address, DOB, payment methods, previous login dates and previous flights. A user will also be able to purchase an exclusive membership if they wish, at a cost.
The payment method can be separate, or the program can also keep track of each user’s remaining money. Alternatively, customers can also purchase flights using their points/miles - depending on the complexity level.

There will also be a Flight tracker available to give the customer a list of available flights based on the customer’s search. Each flight will have an ID (flight number), date (including the local time of departure and arrival), fare class, and class of travel. Each flight will also have an expandable seatmap that shows the occupied/vacant seats on the flight (represented by x’s and o’s). After a user has bought a (valid) ticket, their seat will no longer be available in the seatmap (vacant → occupied). The seat will be assigned to a user, unless the user cancels their flight.

The user will be presented with a menu upon login with options that allow the user to buy a ticket, cancel a reservation, search available flights based on a specific attribute (e.g. search based on date/ID - will decide later). There will also be an option to log out, when the program will terminate.

Users can have exclusive memberships which will grant them access to special flights. These flights will not appear to a non-member. A user can be an administrator, which will grant them access to a different menu than the user’s. This menu will have options to add or remove a flight from the available list of flights. An administrator should also be able to see the list of users in a flight, as well as the list of loyalty members. They should also be able to manually cancel a user’s flight in case of a security threat.

When the user selects an available flight & seat that they wish to purchase, a new ticket will be made. The ticket will keep track of the flight details and its user’s name. The ticket will also have a price that differs based on details of the flight/seat, or the user’s loyalty for any added bonuses - the tickets have two types: normal and exclusive depending on the flight of the user. The ticket will expire after the flight has occurred - this would mean that the program will keep track of the current time and date.